---
title: 2023-08-29 Comms weekly
tags:
  - acid-updates
date: 2023-08-29
lastmod: 2023-09-04
draft: false
---
## Leads roundup - acid

### **Al - Comms**

- LPE & Podcast are almost there. Content needs to be polished and reviewed by Carl and Jarrad. Might have an impact on the deadline but we start testing phase tomorrow.
- Plan for marketing and promotion of the podcast needs a bit more work. Teasers for Snowden will be released. Next episode drops next week.
- Status app comms campaign. We are aligned with John and Status team. Needs pre-launch work for content and pending some items and confirmations from John.
- Digital designer will be joining us soon for Content team. We are still looking for a Motion designer.
- Townhall: Dmitry and Santiago will be talking re: Codex + Logos culture. 

### **Amir - Tech and Design**

- LPE is ready. Content is being populated. Soft launch is 30/08. Then stress test, debug, etc. 
- Notion page is up and running for listing errors, bugs and feedback. Amir will move to GitHub https://www.notion.so/f9fef49cc74c46b19ceb9c14a2003062?v=3eb563f28fc448bd836d16da1272d620&pvs=4
- Wiki: codebase will be ready in a day or two, then once infra team deploys we have kick off meeting for structure, content etc. Then design team can redesign based on what we need. Timeframe: end of September

### **Matt - Copy**

- Content from the LPE is getting there, pending review as mentioned above. 
- Cleaning up the documentation sites etc.
- Status comms campaign is coming so articles in planning will be drafted and 

### **Christian - Podcast**

- Podcast release plan is being solidified and reviewed https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ppSb_Fkdw3iirwzlEgTvYpkq3n00ds4Xz5KE3mgqA-E/edit?usp=sharing
- Review process is set up and open for feedback.

### **Nick - Content**

- Decks for townhall are coming and will be ready for next week.
- Images for LPE content is being vetted. We are looking to establish a style for the first article to set the tone for the following. This is holding it back a bit but once it is set we can move it from there.

### **Louisa - Events**

- By the end of next week we will launch global event strategy post-review. Includes templates and structures for the future.
- Network State Event needs to lock down the potential event speakers, how to communicate with them and basically get a review. Nimbus and Waku and Codex will be there. We need to fix the program and agree on it. Venues shortlisted by the end of the week. 
- 8 agencies have been briefed as event organisers. Needs to be locked and set by end of week.
- ETH Rome, Logos and Waku are sponsoring and Jarrad is talking. Paralelni Polis is happening late September. Working on the details to hit production deadlines.
- Beginning work on hacakthon in Seoul end of February 2024.

### **Movement Building - Santiago**

- Comms plans LPE, Status and Logos Community plans are on good track. Carl reviewed and asked for 90 day plans plus timelines. 
- Logos community structure is being developed to guide people through an engagement/leadership ladder that serves our purpose. First community coming in will be our testing phase pre-growth.
- LPE launch plan is being reviewed and has a budget verbally approved to push via paid ads. Focus mostly on Snowden on episode as a roundabout way to support awareness for Logos.
- BU Plans, pretty much done, will send them to Al asap for review.
