---
title: "2023-08-02 Acid weekly"
tags:
  - "acid-updates"
date: 2023-08-03
lastmod: 2023-08-03
draft: false
---

## Leads roundup - acid

**Al / Comms**

- Status app relaunch comms campaign plan in the works. Approx. date for launch 31.08.
- Logos comms + growth plan post launch is next up TBD.
- Will be waiting for specs for data room, raise etc.
- Hires: split the role for content studio to be more realistic in getting top level talent.

**Matt  / Copy**

- Initiative updating old documentation like CC guide to reflect broader scope of BUs
- Brand guidelines/ modes of presentation are in process
- Wikipedia entry on network states and virtual states is live on 

**Eddy / Digital Comms**

- Logos Discord will be completed by EOD.
- Codex Discord will be done tomorrow.
 - LPE rollout plan, currently working on it, will be ready EOW
- Podcast rollout needs some
- Overarching BU plan will be ready in next couple of weeks as things on top have taken priority.

**Amir / Studio**

- Started execution of LPE for new requirements, broken down in smaller deliveries. Looking to have it working and live by EOM.
- Hires: still looking for 3 positions with main focus on developer side. 

**Jonny / Podcast**

- Podcast timelines are being set. In production right now. Nick delivered graphics for HiO but we need a full pack.
- First HiO episode is in the works. Will be ready in 2 weeks to fit in the rollout of the LPE.

**Louisa / Events**

- Global strategy paper for wider comms plan.
- Template for processes and executions when preparing events.
- Decision made with Carl to move Network State event to November in satellite of other events. Looking into ETH Lisbon / Staking Summit etc.
 - Seoul Q4 hackathon is already in the works. Needs bounty planning.