---
tags:
  - acid-updates
title: 2023-09-18 Acid Update
---
## **Overview/Priorities**
- Al departure
	- Short term - We need to stabilise, Al brought a lot of value, we may have to step up a little bit, will meet with Carl and Jarrad weekly.
	- Long term - positive changes internally, open culture, open feedback, etc.
	- Townhalls - Christian will be point of contact. With Santiago to support. The idea is plan 3-6 months in advance.
	- Comms strategy - Adjusting it to be more strategic and concise. with focus on Brand Awareness & BU Needs, measuring Impact & clear timeline.
	- Virtual office - Available for anyone to join Santiago and Ned to discuss, ask questions, hangout.
	- To team leads: please implement feedback mechanisms that are safe for people. Open up first about shortcomings and promote healthy criticism and exchange. Copy the After Action Review model if necessary for each project delivery and a regular one at your discretion. We want to be better together and trust each other. It is a marker of a successful organisation.

## **Amir - Tech & Design**
- Improvements on LPE. RSS feed, Discord bot integration, X threads can be previewed
- Integration of Odoo for email client is with infra.
- Logos System Design (LSD) is being optimised.

## **Matt / Sterlin - Copy**
- Plethora of words to the LPE. Focus there. Make sure the content looks and feels good. Sterlin feels writing looks good in relation with other similar projects.
- Matt and Sterlin are working on the Status blog posts for the upcoming launch.
- Amelia is working on the BU updates.
- Rick is the social media master, making really good progress on setting up a solid base and communication with the BUs in regards to their needs.

## **Nick - Digital Content Studio**
- New meeting with Jarrad to get his involvement in the day to day things, he has clarity re: guests, shifting content and style. Objective is to have conversations that inform our thinking about network states, governance, etc. Cater content for Jarrad to build his skill as a speaker and host.
- Production value is an important improvement point.
- Looking for more people to join as motion designer for video help.
- Swag for ETH Rome needs feedback but is on itâ€™s way and on time.
- Podcast: we have a solid buffer of interviews for HiO and Logos that allows us to have time for strategic changes.
- Podcast: New stream/recording subscription needs to be approved by someone else to move forward.

## **Santiago - Movement Building**
- Comms strategies - overall, as a master guideline, we should be creating a movement around network states and not a network state, as a key player and a thought leader. From people developing privacy tech, charter cities, etc. To invest all our resources to creating spaces (physical x digital) for the different parties.
- Jarrad: We want authentic organic interaction and conversations like a learning community.
- Nick feedback : To approach which conversations/guests are more appropriately placed in which formats, because production time need to be mindful (podcast, twitter space, etc.)
- LPE launch awaits Comms strategy realignment.

## **Louisa - Events**
- Holding back on global guidelines and event strategy once comms strategy is in place.
- Jarrad is speaking at POW and HCCP. Decks coming ASAP.
- ETH Rome: investing in bounties, smaller meetups are coming. We need booth, merch, swag design this week. Railgun collab with Waku.
- Istanbul: Just some alignment needed re: names and others. Vac, Nimbus and Waku will be there, think about how to overlay design work.