---
title: 2023-10-25 Comms weekly
tags:
  - acid-updates
date: 2023-10-17
lastmod: 2023-10-25
draft: false
description: Weekly update of <project>
---

**ACID ROUND UP - OCT. 17**

**Overview/Priorities**

- Workflows / Champions model: Reporting structure necessary.
- Reporting to C+J: ClickUp dashboards.
- Brand Guidelines: In process of improvements.
- Istanbul NSF event cancelled. Will find more opportunities in first half of 2024.

**Tech & Design**

- LSD finetuning.
- Nomos team requested executable code inside documentation website.
- Documentation for Docusaurus site. Every BU can deploy their own documentation
- Integrating the Logos job listings on IFT website - working with JB and Flo.
- No integrated requirement checklist for what the roadmap should be for all the org. It is not clear if this is one project or several. Different reporting structures per BU makes this complex. Focus on task / “bounty” list
- Finish up guidelines pages

**Digital Content Studio**

- Ana (new visual designer) joined last week. Helping on branding designs.
- Podcast templates for cutout animations are good to go. Match options for outputs.
- Twitter Spaces has an overlap with podcast pipeline. Jarrad also wants a easy going convo type setup for his own thinking and this is a bit. Needs to sync with MF.
- Matt and Nick sign off on LPE Article Headers/Social images

**Podcast**

- Quality control got version of Jordi Baylina episode with new graph. Will be ready soon.
- Snowden episode needs a change in the graph at the beginning and  needs date change when we know it will launch

 **Copy**

- Doc sites are all live except for Waku - pending some small changes.
- Nimbus websites might be getting close to launch.
- Carl asked for a beginner series for the network state concept, including a call to action that makes it easy for them to get to the beginner friendly content.
- IFT copy is in Carl’s hands and we are waiting for review.
- 3 tech one pagers for Matt and the fundraising team are done.

**Movement Building**

- Twitter Spaces idea for each BU is being discussed internally. Ideas to use  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yOPPsZqKzf6__zuCsFYRsDDkk-lYX--vjRoz6e7OYK4/edit
- Working on events stuff and postponing Network State Forum event for next year
- We are running and testing ads on promoting our Twitter Spaces and have pivoted to growing our brand following online to lead into a big event. Potentially hackathon around the all hands meeting etc.
- PR company: onboarding is happening, they are asking good questions there
- Status: Launch the community campaign. John wants to launch Nov 1.
- Paid Twitter Ads: Carl asked to run test ad. 2k for Logos space tweet. so far, 800k impressions. 125 followers gained so far. We will use this for benchmarking.
- NSP: held up as Jarrad is reviewing content and Carl is pending.
- Waku: feedback from Rome, mentioned that people come to them what is Waku/Status/Logos and how does everything fit. They don’t have a clear answer. We are fixing this.
- Talking to Lou re: events, we can approach Waku marketing as short term campaigns initially November-December. Will propose an awareness campaign to see what can be done with existing resources.

**Events**

- Different scenarios for Istanbul. Looking at whether we co-sponsor EthGlobal Istanbul.
- Waku will be doing EthGlobal India. EthGlobal Istanbul too expensive (40k) for Waku alone so we might co-sponsor.
- Speaking to EthDenver for next year + an Africa strategy for Waku.
- Set up and manage events and KPIs and reporting in Click Up via forms that external people to the comms team can fill in.
- We need a proper lead time for activation campaigns to maximise participation, social awareness etc. This is in planning.
- Video footage from EthCC Paris event still unedited. If there are requests, we can edit it for that purpose.
- Writing a brief for event managers

**Project Management**

- Workflows reviews and optimizations based on strategy, goals and champions model
- PM and reporting set-up in ClickUp