---
title: 2023-10-25 Comms weekly
tags:
  - acid-updates
date: 2023-10-24
lastmod: 2023-10-25
draft: false
description: Weekly update of Comms
---

**Overview/Priorities**

- We are on the right track re: reporting, champions model and outputs. Full update here: https://doc.clickup.com/9009185920/p/h/8cfuh40-13894/965f96f62ea5053

**Tech & Design**

- IFT website desktop version almost ready
- Logos Brand Guidelines are being updated
- Docusauraus updates - workshop for BUs to enable them to do content updates
- Jobs will be added to every BU website and IFT

**Digital Content Studio**

- Content guidelines in the works, summarising everything and putting it all together to make it functional.
- Swag and presentations are coming in according to plan - nothing of note.
- Jonny working on proposal for NPS UX/structure in Figma based on conversation with nick and Amir yesterday

**Podcast**

- Pulling together detailed rollout doc with assets and exact copy for Al to send to Snowden and Assange for approvals and coordination.
- Get Stella out - audio quality is much better than Snowden’s so it’s good to go.

 **Copy**

- IFT is ready and getting published by EOW.
- No news for copy re: NSP. Soft launch projected for this week for NSP.
- Beginner friendly piece by Rick for NSP is in production.
- Event promotion for Logos EthGlobal Pragma presence.
- Social buffer for Logos is set and ready. In depth threads re: philosophy and connection with each part of the tech stack.

**Movement Building**

- Logos Discord structure: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N0vgj7GIHllJ9YI912WdMetSEELMBzuWbRKl8NXjXCA/edit#heading=h.ebfdikfy2j9v
- Logos Forum gets traffic due to paid ads, please pay attention and move discussions there as much as is natural.
- Feedback from Jarrad: we need to focus on creating shareable cultural artifacts. For example, transcribing Twitter spaces into forums. Lazar suggested using the radical _anarchy salon content too.
- Soft launch of NSP will happen this end of week. Next week we go with main launch.
- Twitter paid ads were running on space. Report is complete and ready to be shared.
- Growth strategy with Logos paid ads and Network state paid ads will be completed soon and shared with all.
- Legal: long story short is they will ask to have the least possible changes to the privacy policy but changes we asked for should be ready to be implemented.

**Events**

- Waku will be the main brand at ETHGlobal Istanbul to avoid confusion and to optimise
- Logos will be present at Pragma - we maximise brand awareness and want to test
- Wider event marketing campaign needs to be clear. Distinct posts, tracking impact.
- Dashboard on ClickUp for KPIs is in the works. Focus on optimising event attendance vs cost and resources.
- 2024 is in the works. Africa events outline for Waku, ETH Denver already contacted.

**Project Management**

- Setting up workspace, PM and reporting in click up with teams and get audit with Clickup experts. Onboarding next week.