---
title: 2023-10-10 Comms weekly
tags:
  - acid-updates
date: 2023-10-03
lastmod: 2023-10-10
draft: false
description: Weekly update of Comms
---
## `acid`
---

### Overview/Priorities
- Comments from the BUs about blockers and miscommunications - Reevaluation of our comms strategy: BUs are responsible for DevRel, BD, and technical content. We’re responsible for QC of outgoing content (wordsmiths, video editing, and packaging) and non-technical content. This will be communicated with them and consolidated along with the strategy asap.
- New Mantra: Brand awareness and Learning Communities, which are both measurable by proxy. This means we focus more on performance and growth KPIs and reporting these clearly to C/J.
- With clear success metrics in place + costs and resources used we can finally focus on optimise our efforts and use it as a way to guide conversations about prioritising requests. This includes things like revisiting the creation of swag for each event etc.
- New champions model for each BU. https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPOFj6t8=/. We have an account manager/ implement, test it and iterate as soon as possible

### Amir - Tech & Design
- Logos System Design new version (design) is done. Development continue with Joao. Will move on to documentation.
- LPE project is done. Optimising the scoring system for the search pending a lot of content. V1 is officially done. Renamed to *Network State Press*
- Ihor working on sketches and directing of *Institute of Free Tech*. Will share soon.
- BDP - brand design portal, we designed and managed the dev before but now on hold. For now focus on Brand Guidelines in Docusauraus for BUs.

### Nick - Digital Content Studio
- Presentations, swag work with Veronika & Video for events.
- Jonny has presented a few options for the podcast

### Christian - Podcast
- Open to doing Twitter spaces, in another category to keep it more streamlined and controlled. He wants interactive discussions, open quesitons, brainstorming etc.
- Currently QC of Snowden
- No new interviews, just doing checks of Ameen, Baylina  and Assange. Will have it ready
- Jarrad will present the townhall

### Matt - Copy
- Status articles - Sterlin and Matt.
- BU Docs sites - Amelia. - good to go.
- Mode of presentation guidelines (part of brand guidelines) for BUs - by Matt.
- Develp site for Nimbus - Rick
- IFT landing page - Rick
- Collectively, series of articles about beginner’s guide to Network States.

### Santiago - Movement Building
- Focusing on brand awareness and growth - we will set up reporting structures for Carl and Jarrad that are numbers based in relation to cost effectiveness.
- Odoo Email tool is with infra - configuration needed of the external SMTP server.
- Finding a PR moments for the raise.
- Next week and a half will be focused on updating the Logos server to have a proper onboarding strategy to optimise for a learning community experience. Will meet with Eddy and Jen to do this. Jen is currently updated all the all the Discord servers.

### Louisa - Events
- POW and HCCP done - challenge not enough brand awareness
- Metrics and dashboards to get a clear impact on KPIs related to events.

### J&F - Project Management
- Assessment for workspace, work/information flow and dashboard optimization intra and inter teams and projects.
- Organize around BUs and content pipelines
- Tools assessment